=== ccw4.pdf (6 pages) ===

--- Page 1 ---
F 0600csT308052201
RegNo.:
F'.i aai
ApJ ABDUL KALAM rEcHNoLocrcAL uNrvERiifi, y*\r \ )i j'- - '- - r
ii,,.-;
B.rech Degree s6 (s, FE) / s6 (pr) (s) Examination January;;,)\i? r $ .t.\ Q .'. [-S' *- ,',r,ffi;,Yi
$\ .,{..i \\-r_2.-,,.r.
\i**.{? 1,, I o.. | : :..:'
Course Code: CST308
Course name: COMPREIIENSM COURSE WORK
50
Max. Marks:
Duration: lHour
Instructions: (I) Each quesfion carries one mark. No negative marks for wrong an$eers
(2) Total numher of questions: S0
' (3) AII questions are to be answered Each question wilt befotlowed by 1 possible answen of
which only ONE is corrcct
(1) If mare than one option is chosen, it will not be consideredfor voluation.
l.
In a timesharing operating system, when the time slot assigned to a process is completed, the process
switches from the current state to?
a) Suspended state b) Terminated c) Ready state d) Blocked state
state
2.
Dirty bit is used to indicate which of the following?
a) A page fault has b) A page has c) A page has been d) An illegal access of
occurred data being
corrupted modified after page
loaded into cache
3. What is a short-term scheduler?
a) It selects which b) It selects c) It selects which d) None of the
process has to be which process process to remove mentioned
the be
brought into has to from memory by
queue next
ready executed swapping
and allocates
CPU
4. If a process fails, most operating system write the error information to a
" f,
a) new file b) another c) log file d) none ofthe
running mentioned
process
lar t.
5. If a pr6cess is executing in its criiical section, then no other processes can be executing in their
critical section.'What is this condition call'ed?
a) mutuil exclusion b) critical c) synchronous d) asynchronous
exclusion exclusion exclusion
6.
when are the register context and stack of thread dealrocated?
a) when the thread b) when the c) when the thread d) when the thread
terminates thread blocks unblocks spawns
Page 1 of 6

--- Page 2 ---
0600csT308052201
Out of these page replacement alqorithms, which one suffers from Belady's anomaly?
a) LRU b) FrFo c) Both LRU and FIFO d) Optimal Page
Replacement
Which one of these is NOT shared by the same process's threads?
a) b) c) d)
Address Space Stack Message Queue File Descriptor
Table
Which ofthese disk scheduling policies results in minimum head movement?
a) scan b) Elevator c) FCS d)
Circular None of the above
In a computer system that consists of n number of CPUs, the maximum processes that can exist in the
Ready State would be:
a) Independent ofn b) 2n c) n2 d)n
ll
Which of the following is preserved in execution oftransaction in isolation?
a) Atomicity b) Isolation c) Durability d) Consistency
Given the following relation instance.
xyz
t42
r 53
| 63
322
a) XY )Z and Z>Y b) c) YZ)XandX)Z d) Xz)YandY)X
!)xandv
l3
Identifr the statement among the following that is FALSE.
a) The relation in b) A relation that c) The prime attribute d) The prime attribute
which all keys have has two can depend can depend
only a single attributes is in transitively on any transitively on any
attribute is in its itS BCNF key in the case of a key in the case of a
2NF relation that is in its relation that is in its
BCNF 3NF
.14
SQL allows tuples in relations, and correspondingly defines the multiplicity of tuples in the result of
joins. Which one of the following queries always gives the same answer as the nested query shown
below:
*-fro*
select Rwhere a in (select S.afrom S)
a) select R.* from R, S b) select distinct 4) select R.* from d) select I R.* from R,S
where R.a:S.a (D) R.*from R,S R,(select distinct a where R.a:S.a and
where
from S) as Sl where is unique R
R.a:S.o R.a:SI.a
l5 The term for information that describes what type of data is available in adatabase is:
a) dictionary b) D_??^,.^ c) data d)
Data Index Metadata
reposltory
r6 Consider the relation Cinema(theater, address, capacity)
Which of the following options will be needed at the end of the SQL query
SELECT Pl.address FROM Cinema Pl
such that it always nnOs tfre addresses of theaters with maximum capacity ?
Page 2 of 6

--- Page 3 ---
0600csT308052201
a) WHERE Pl.capacitY b) WH.ERE c) WHERE Pl.capacity d) WHERE Pl.capacity
>: All (select Pl.iapacity > All (select > AnY (select
from ;': max(P2.capacity) max(P2.capacity)
P2.capacity AnY
P2)
Cinema P2) (select from Cinema from Cinema P2)
P2.caPacitY
from Cinema
P2)
l7 Consider the following two statements about database transaction schedules:
- I. Strict two-f,hase locking protocol generates conflict serializable schedules that are also
recoverable.
II. Timestamp-ordering concurrency control protocol with Thomas Write Rule can generate
view serializable schedules that are not conflict serializable.
Which of the above statements is/are TRUE?
a) Both I and II b) I only c) II only d) Neither I nor II
t8 B* Trees are considered BALANCED because
a) The lengths of the b) The lengths of c) The number of D) The number of
paths from the root the paths from children of any two records in anY two
to all leaf nodes are the root to all non-leaf sibling leaf nodes differ bY
all equal. leafnodes nodes differ by at at most l.
differ from most l.
each other by
at most l.
t9 Which ofthe following relational query languages have the same expressive power?
I) Relational algebra
II) Tuple relational calculus restricted to safe expressions
III) Domain relational calculus restricted to safe expressions.
aa\) II and III only Lb\) I and II on ' ly nc\) I and lll only o" ) t t ' II and III
20 An entity in A is associated with at most one entity in B. An entity in B, however' can be associated
with any number (zero or more) of entities in A.
a) one-to-many b) one-to-one c) Many-to-many d) Many-to-one
'21 Convert the following infix expression into its equivalent postfix expression'
(A+BADy(E-F)+G
a) (ABDn+EF-/ b) (ABD+nE c) (ABDn+EF/-G d) (ABDEF+n/-
F-/G+) G+)
G+) j+) *
22 The result of preorder traversal is same as:
d)
a) Depth-first order b) Breadth-first c) Topological order Linear order
search
23 Queues serve major role in t z
a) Simulation of b) Simulation of c) Simulation of d) Simulation of heaP
recursion arbitrary limited resource son
linked list allocation
24 In the worst case, the number of comparisons needed to search a singly linked list of length n fot a
given element is?
log 2n b) tlD c) log 2n - I d) n
"l
25 If several elements are eompeting for the same bucket in the hash table, what is it called?
Page 3 of 5

--- Page 4 ---
-----------t
0600csT30E0s2201
a) Diffirsion b) Replication c) Collision d) Duplication
26 what is the number of edges preseht in a complete graph having n vertices?
a) (n*(n+l)/2 b) (n*(n-l))/2 b) d)
n Information given is
insufficient
27 Which ofthe following is not an in-place sorting algorithm?
a) Selection sort b) Heap sort c) Quick sort d) Merge sort
28 The time complexity of heap sort in worst case is:
a) O(logn) b) o(n) c) O(nlogn) d) o(n2)
29
Suppose we are sorting an anay of eight integers using quicksort, and we have just finished the first
partitioning with the array looking like this:
25l7912ltl0
Which statement is correct?
a) The pivot could be b) The pivot c) The pivot is not the d) Neither the 7 nor the
either the 7 or the 9. could be the 7, but it could be the 9 is the pivot
7, but it is not 9
the 9
30 Consider a situation where swap operation is very costly. Which of the following sorting algorithms
should be preferred so that the number of swap operations are minimized in general?
a) Heap Sort b) Selection sort c) Insertion sort d) Merge Sort
3l Match the following.
(a) Immediate address mode (l) Locat variables
(b) mode
Direct address (2) Relocatable programs
I mode
Indirect address (3) Pointer
(d) mode
Index addressing (4) Locality of reference
I mode
Base address (5) Anays
(f) mode
Relative address (6) Constant Operands
a) a6 bl c3 d5 e2 f4 b) a5 b4 c6 d3 el c) a3b5c2 d4 el f2 d) a6b5 c2 d3 el f:l
f2
32 Search concept used in associative memory is:
a) Parallel search b) Sequential c) Binary Search d) Selection search
Search
33 Memory interleaving is done to:
' a) Increase the amount b) Reduce gI Simpliff memory d) Reducb page faults
memory
of logical memory interfacing
access ume
34
Which of the following DMA transfer modes and intemrpt handling mechanisms will enable the highest
bandwidth?
VO a at.
a) Tlansparent DMA b) Qycle- c) Block.Transfer and d) Bloc[< transfer and
and Polling Stealing and vectored intemrpts polling intemrpts
interrtrpts Vectored
intemrpts
35 Consider the following sequence of micro-operations.
e
MBR PC
MAReX
PCeY
Page 4 of 6

--- Page 5 ---
0600csr308052201
Memory <- MBR
Which one of the following isg possible operation performed by this sequence ?
a) Instruction fetch b) Operand fetch c) Conditional branch d) Initiation of intemrpt
service
36 processors_.
Register renaming is done in pipelined
a) to b) efficient c) d)
as an alternative for to handle certain as part ofaddress
register allocation at access to kinds of hazards translation
compile time function
parameters
and local
variables
37
Which of the following DMA transfer modes and intemrpt handling mechanisms will enable the highest
I/O bandwidth?
-a) b) c) d)
Transparent DMA Cycle- Block Transfer and Block transfer and
and Polling Stealing and vectored intemrpts Polling intemrpts
intemrpts Vectored
intemrpts
38 A cache has a 64 KB capacity, 128 -byte lines (blocks), and is 4 -way set associative. The system
containing the cache uses 32 -bit addresses. How many lines (blocks) and sets does the cache have?
a) b) c) d)
64 t28 2s6 32
39 A machine with Ndifferent opcodes can contain how many different sequences of micro-operations.
d)N
a) 2n b) ryiv c) 1t1z
40 How many 32Kx I RAM chips are needed to provide a memory capacity of 256K-bytes?
a)8 b) c) d)
32 64 r28
4l Which of the following will not be accepted by the following DFA?
a) ababaabaa b) abbbaa d)
c) abbbaabb abbaabbaa
42 Can a DFA recognize a palindrome number?
a) Yes b) No d)
c) Yes, with input Can't be determined
alphabet as I*
43 Whicl of the following options is correct?
Statement l: Initial State ofNFA is Initial State of DFA.
Statement 2: The final state of DFA will be every combination of final state ofNFA.
a) Statement I is true b) Statement I is c) Statement I can be d) Statement I is false
and Statement 2 is true and true and Statement 2 and Statement 2 is
true Statement 2 is is true also false
false
Page 5 of 6

--- Page 6 ---
0600csT3080s2201
44
Which ofthe following statement is correct?
a) All Regutar b) All context c) grammar d)
Regular None of the
gftlmmar arg context free grammar and context free mentioned
vice regurar
free but not are gr.rmmar are the
versa but
grammar same entity
not vice versa
45 suppose A) xBz and B)y, then the simplified grammar would be:
- a) A)xyz b) A)xBzlxyz c) A)xBzlBly d)
none of the
46 mentioned
Given grammar G:
(l)s)AS
(2)S)AAS
.
(3)A)SA
(4)A)aa
Which of the following productions denies the format of Chomsky Normal.Form?
a) 2,4 b) 1,3 c) l, 2, 3, 4 d) 2, 3, 4
47
What is the pumping length of string of length x?
a) x+l b) x c) x-l d)
x2
48
The language ofbalanced paranthesis is:
a) regular b) non regular c) may be regular d) none ofthe
49 which ofthe problems are unsolvable? mentioned
a) Halting problem b) Boolean c) & d)
Halting problem None ofthe
Satisfiability Boolean
mentioned
problem
Satisfiability
problem
tO
'. A language. L is said to be if there is a turing machine M such that L(MFL and M halts
at every point.
a) Turing acceptable b) Decidable c) Undecidable d)
None of the
,r,**** mgntioned
-
Page 6 of6

